Yuddha Kāṇḍa (Book of war, also known as Lanka Kanda)
=====================================================

**Introduction:**

Sundara Kāṇḍa is sixth book of Ramayana which describes the battle in Lanka between the monkey and the demon armies of Rama and Ravana, respectively. After Ravana is defeated, Sita undergoes the test of fire, completes exile with Rama, and they return to Ayodhya to reign over the ideal state.

###Synopsis###

also known as Lanka kand, this book describes the battle between the army of Rama, constructed with the help of Sugriv and Ravana. Having received Hanuman's report on Sita, Rama and Lakshmana proceed with their allies toward's the shore of the southern sea. There they are joined by Ravana's renegade brother Vibhishana.The monkey's named "Nal" and "Neel" construct a floating bridge (known as Rama Setu) across the ocean, and the princes and their army cross over to Lanka. A lengthy battle ensues and Rama kills Ravana. Rama then installs Vibhishana on the throne of Lanka.


The monkeys (vanars) who had fought for lord Rama had entered the throne room. The palace guards struck them to move them out. This angered lord Rama. He said these are my people. Let them be. Rama orders Sita to be brought to him in open court. To the great dismay of all present, he treats her coldly. Valmiki mentions that Rama is 'afraid of how vulgar people talk' and this factor's in his behaviour. Still what he says is very shocking. That he only fought the battle in the cause of righteousness. He will not take Sita back because she has been the property of another man. She can marry some other prince- including one of his brothers or the new king of Lanka. Or else she can go where she likes. Grief-stricken Sita gives him a fitting reply. She reveals that her true birth is divine and causing a pyre to be built up, herself enters the fire as proof of her virtue. Rama's silence and inaction during this horrendous event shocks and paralyses everybody. However, Sita's self-imposed trial by fire triggers the appearance of the heavenly gods who explain the divine nature of lord Rama and lord Sita and their true relationship. Sita is restored to Rama and he also meets his father who has attained heavenly bliss. Rama asks for and is granted the restoration to life of all his humble followers slain in battle. It is noteworthy, in Valmiki's account, that though mistreatment of the monkey people (who symbolise the ordinary devotees of the lord) first causes him to flare up with anger and order Sita to be brought before him in open court – thus affording the devotee a 'darshan' (theophany) of 'divine mother' – but, at the same time, lord Rama is said to feel fear because of how vulgar people speak and the sort of prejudices they harbour, during his speech to Sita. This shows once again that the common people, ordinary devotees with all their imperfections, remain closest to his heart. One final point, but for Ram's cold and unfeeling behaviour to Sita, she would not have chosen to enter the fire. However, it was that act which triggered the appearance of the gods. Once again, Rama shows his overriding concern for his humble devotees by asking that the lives of his slain followers be restored. Departing from valmiki, in popular culture, this episode is dealt with differently. There, on meeting Sita, Rama asks her to undergo an "agni pariksha" (test of fire) to prove her purity, as he wanted to get rid of the rumours surrounding Sita's purity. When Sita plunges into the sacrificial fire, Agni the lord of fire raises Sita, unharmed, to the throne, attesting to her purity. The episode of agni pariksha varies in the versions of Ramayana by Valmiki and Tulsidas.The above version is from the Valmiki Ramayana. In Tulsidas's Ramacharitamanas Sita was under the protection of Agni so it was necessary to bring her out before reuniting with Rama. At the expiration of his term of exile, Rama returns to Ayodhya with Sita and Lakshmana, where the coronation is performed.This is the beginning of Ram-rajya, which implies an ideal state with good morals.

###Chapters###

There are 128 Chapters and many slokas
